docs/FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_READY.md, before:

# Frontend Deployment Ready - AI Forge Hub

**Date**: December 19, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ Ready for Deployment

---

## Summary

The frontend has been prepared for deployment to DCDeploy, following the same successful approach used for the backend (1-go deployment). All known issues from previous projects have been proactively addressed.

---

## Files Created

### 1. Dockerfile (`frontend/Dockerfile`)
- **Multi-stage build**: Node 20 Alpine builder + nginx Alpine production
- **Node version**: Uses Node 20 to match package requirements (Vite 7.3.0, Vitest 4.0.16 require Node 20+)
- **Optimized caching**: Package files copied first for better layer caching
- **Memory optimization**: Increased Node memory limit for large builds
- **Production-ready**: Minimal nginx image for serving static files

### 2. nginx.conf (`frontend/nginx.conf`)
- **SPA routing**: All routes fall back to `index.html` for client-side routing
- **Static assets**: Long-term caching (1 year) for immutable assets
- **Gzip compression**: Enabled for text-based files
- **Security headers**: X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options, etc.
- **Health check**: `/nginx-health` endpoint for container orchestration

### 3. .dockerignore (`frontend/.dockerignore`)
- Excludes `node_modules`, `.git`, `.env` files, `dist`, etc.
- Optimizes Docker build context size
- Prevents sensitive files from being included

### 4. .env (`frontend/.env`)
- **Minimal variables**: Only `VITE_API_URL` (essential)
- **Actual values**: Uses `http://localhost:3001/api` for development
- **Vite requirement**: All env vars must have `VITE_` prefix

### 5. test-docker-build.sh (`frontend/test-docker-build.sh`)
- Local Docker build testing script
- Helps catch issues before deployment

---

## Environment Variables

### Required for Deployment

**DCDeploy Environment Variables**:
```env
VITE_API_URL=https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud/api
```

**Important Notes**:
- Vite requires `VITE_` prefix for environment variables
- Variables are embedded at **build time** (not runtime)
- After changing `VITE_API_URL`, you must **rebuild** the frontend
- Backend URL: `https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud` (from DCDeploy)

---

## Deployment Configuration

### DCDeploy Settings
- **Repository**: `https://github.com/vapmail16/contextfirstai.git`
- **Build Context**: `frontend/`
- **Dockerfile Path**: `frontend/Dockerfile`
- **Port**: `3001`

### Build Process
1. **Builder Stage**: 
   - Installs dependencies
   - Builds React app with Vite
   - Outputs to `dist/` directory

2. **Production Stage**:
   - Copies `dist/` to nginx html directory
   - Serves static files with nginx
   - Handles SPA routing

---

## Issues Addressed

### From Previous Projects
- ✅ **Multi-stage build**: Optimized for size and caching
- ✅ **Node version compatibility**: Uses Node 20 to match package requirements (Issue #6)
- ✅ **SPA routing**: nginx configured for client-side routing
- ✅ **Static assets**: Proper caching and MIME types
- ✅ **Security headers**: Added security headers in nginx
- ✅ **Health check**: Added health check endpoint

### From Backend Deployment
- ✅ **Minimal .env**: Only essential variables (learned from Issue #3, #4)
- ✅ **Actual values**: No placeholders (learned from Issue #4)
- ✅ **Documentation**: Comprehensive deployment checklist

---

## Testing

### Local Build Test
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
# ✅ Build successful
```

### Docker Build Test
```bash
cd frontend
./test-docker-build.sh
# Or manually:
docker build -t contextfirstai-frontend:test -f Dockerfile .
docker run -p 3001:3001 -e VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:3001/api contextfirstai-frontend:test
```

Visit: `http://localhost:3001`

---

## Deployment Steps

1. **Backend URL**: ✅ Available - `https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud`
2. **Set Environment Variable**: Add `VITE_API_URL=https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud/api` in DCDeploy dashboard
3. **Deploy Frontend**: Connect repository and deploy
4. **Get Frontend URL**: After frontend deployment, note the frontend URL
5. **Update Backend CORS**: Add frontend URL to backend `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in DCDeploy
6. **Redeploy Backend**: Apply CORS changes
7. **Verify**: Test frontend and API connectivity

See `docs/FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md` for detailed steps.

---

## Expected Outcome

**Target**: 1-go deployment (like backend)  
**Confidence**: High (all known issues addressed)  
**Status**: Ready for deployment 🚀

---

## Related Files

- `frontend/Dockerfile` - Main Dockerfile
- `frontend/nginx.conf` - Nginx configuration
- `frontend/.dockerignore` - Docker ignore file
- `frontend/.env` - Environment variables
- `frontend/test-docker-build.sh` - Local testing script
- `docs/FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md` - Deployment checklist
- `docs/DEPLOYMENT.md` - Complete deployment guide

---

**Last Updated**: December 19, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ Ready for Deployment

Commit message:

Fix frontend localhost issue - Add VITE_API_URL as build argument
- Updated Dockerfile to accept VITE_API_URL as build argument (ARG/ENV)
- Vite requires environment variables at build time, not runtime
- Updated all deployment documentation to clarify build arguments vs runtime env vars
- Added Issue #3 to POST_DEPLOYMENT_ISSUES.md: Frontend Using localhost Instead of Deployed Backend URL
- Updated FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md with build argument instructions
- Updated FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_READY.md with build argument notes
- Updated DEPLOYMENT.md with critical build argument instructions

This fixes the ERR_CONNECTION_REFUSED error where frontend was trying to connect to localhost:3001 instead of the deployed backend URL.

docs/FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_READY.md, after:

# Frontend Deployment Ready - AI Forge Hub

**Date**: December 19, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ Ready for Deployment

---

## Summary

The frontend has been prepared for deployment to DCDeploy, following the same successful approach used for the backend (1-go deployment). All known issues from previous projects have been proactively addressed.

---

## Files Created

### 1. Dockerfile (`frontend/Dockerfile`)
- **Multi-stage build**: Node 20 Alpine builder + nginx Alpine production
- **Node version**: Uses Node 20 to match package requirements (Vite 7.3.0, Vitest 4.0.16 require Node 20+)
- **Optimized caching**: Package files copied first for better layer caching
- **Memory optimization**: Increased Node memory limit for large builds
- **Production-ready**: Minimal nginx image for serving static files

### 2. nginx.conf (`frontend/nginx.conf`)
- **SPA routing**: All routes fall back to `index.html` for client-side routing
- **Static assets**: Long-term caching (1 year) for immutable assets
- **Gzip compression**: Enabled for text-based files
- **Security headers**: X-Frame-Options, X-Content-Type-Options, etc.
- **Health check**: `/nginx-health` endpoint for container orchestration

### 3. .dockerignore (`frontend/.dockerignore`)
- Excludes `node_modules`, `.git`, `.env` files, `dist`, etc.
- Optimizes Docker build context size
- Prevents sensitive files from being included

### 4. .env (`frontend/.env`)
- **Minimal variables**: Only `VITE_API_URL` (essential)
- **Actual values**: Uses `http://localhost:3001/api` for development
- **Vite requirement**: All env vars must have `VITE_` prefix

### 5. test-docker-build.sh (`frontend/test-docker-build.sh`)
- Local Docker build testing script
- Helps catch issues before deployment

---

## Environment Variables

### Required for Deployment

**DCDeploy Build Arguments** (CRITICAL - Must be build arguments, not runtime env vars):
```bash
VITE_API_URL=https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud/api
```

**Important Notes**:
- Vite requires `VITE_` prefix for environment variables
- Variables are embedded at **build time** (not runtime)
- Dockerfile accepts `VITE_API_URL` as build argument (`ARG VITE_API_URL`)
- Must be set as **build argument** in DCDeploy, not runtime environment variable
- After changing `VITE_API_URL`, you must **rebuild** the frontend
- Backend URL: `https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud` (from DCDeploy)
- **Issue #3**: Setting as runtime env var will cause localhost connection errors

---

## Deployment Configuration

### DCDeploy Settings
- **Repository**: `https://github.com/vapmail16/contextfirstai.git`
- **Build Context**: `frontend/`
- **Dockerfile Path**: `frontend/Dockerfile`
- **Port**: `3001`

### Build Process
1. **Builder Stage**: 
   - Installs dependencies
   - Builds React app with Vite
   - Outputs to `dist/` directory

2. **Production Stage**:
   - Copies `dist/` to nginx html directory
   - Serves static files with nginx
   - Handles SPA routing

---

## Issues Addressed

### From Previous Projects
- ✅ **Multi-stage build**: Optimized for size and caching
- ✅ **Node version compatibility**: Uses Node 20 to match package requirements (Issue #6)
- ✅ **SPA routing**: nginx configured for client-side routing
- ✅ **Static assets**: Proper caching and MIME types
- ✅ **Security headers**: Added security headers in nginx
- ✅ **Health check**: Added health check endpoint

### From Backend Deployment
- ✅ **Minimal .env**: Only essential variables (learned from Issue #3, #4)
- ✅ **Actual values**: No placeholders (learned from Issue #4)
- ✅ **Documentation**: Comprehensive deployment checklist

---

## Testing

### Local Build Test
```bash
cd frontend
npm run build
# ✅ Build successful
```

### Docker Build Test
```bash
cd frontend
./test-docker-build.sh
# Or manually:
docker build -t contextfirstai-frontend:test -f Dockerfile .
docker run -p 3001:3001 -e VITE_API_URL=http://localhost:3001/api contextfirstai-frontend:test
```

Visit: `http://localhost:3001`

---

## Deployment Steps

1. **Backend URL**: ✅ Available - `https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud`
2. **Set Environment Variable**: Add `VITE_API_URL=https://backend-whbqewat8i.dcdeploy.cloud/api` in DCDeploy dashboard
3. **Deploy Frontend**: Connect repository and deploy
4. **Get Frontend URL**: After frontend deployment, note the frontend URL
5. **Update Backend CORS**: Add frontend URL to backend `ALLOWED_ORIGINS` in DCDeploy
6. **Redeploy Backend**: Apply CORS changes
7. **Verify**: Test frontend and API connectivity

See `docs/FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md` for detailed steps.

---

## Expected Outcome

**Target**: 1-go deployment (like backend)  
**Confidence**: High (all known issues addressed)  
**Status**: Ready for deployment 🚀

---

## Related Files

- `frontend/Dockerfile` - Main Dockerfile
- `frontend/nginx.conf` - Nginx configuration
- `frontend/.dockerignore` - Docker ignore file
- `frontend/.env` - Environment variables
- `frontend/test-docker-build.sh` - Local testing script
- `docs/FRONTEND_DEPLOYMENT_CHECKLIST.md` - Deployment checklist
- `docs/DEPLOYMENT.md` - Complete deployment guide

---

**Last Updated**: December 19, 2025  
**Status**: ✅ Ready for Deployment
